what legists are accustomed to consider
the encroachments of the latter
It secured to the owners of church lands
the undisturbed possession of their
property whenever it had been legally
conveyanced; & without this concession 
the legate's mission would have 
proved fruitless." 359.
His splendid reception & treatment
as one of the royal family , & Mary's
struggles in his behalf, when for the 
third time his friends among the 
cardinals tried to elect him pope
— Paul IV was elected & was no friend to 
Pole, already meditating his recall to Rome.
In 1555 Gardiner being dead, the 
Gardiner who had sat with Cramer &
pronounced the sentence of divorce
& who had also maintained the 
royal supremacy - He (G) did one good
                             in saving Elizabeth
                             from the block.
Cardinal convoked a national synod
to consider the disorders fo the period, &
he had before this been appointed, by Philips
special request, chief fo the privy council,
He was to be absent from the Queen as little 
as possible, & nothing of importance was
to be undertaken without his concurrence.)
the best means of stemming the torrent
of depraved morals & strange forms of 
unbeilef.
" it is not our purpose to 
enter into the history of the severe measures
which were adopted for the extirpation
of heresy in England, & which 
we may with the light which subsequent
events have cast upon them,
with reason suspect to have been
extreme & injudicious." (Page 360.)
But goes on to magnify  Pole's exceeding
levity & tenderness of 
disposition. (Who then set the wheels in 
motion , that he did not like to see grind?)
After Cranmer's "execution" P. was
made archbishop of Canterbury, & Chancellor 
of the university of both Oxford & Cambridge.

After all his "doings" he found he 
was to be superseded as legate; was to be
recalled to Rome, & with cardinal 
Morone was to answer the charge of 
heterodoxy before the Inquisition  [*now note*]
"Happily for the Cardinal, Mary &
Philip took his part. They remonstrated with 
the pope on the loss which they & their
subjects would sustain if Pole were
recalled & they prevailed with the Holy
Father so far that he consented to the cardinal's 
retaining the see of Canterbury,
while he appointed Pito, the Greenwich friar, 
to supersede him as legate. Quite in 
the spirit of her father, Mary caused the 
nuncio who brought this decision to 
England to be arrested, & interdicted
Pito from accepting the legative office.
He never received any official 
notice of his appointment, nor Pole of 
the papal decision, He was, however, too 
loyal a subject of the pope to avail himself
of this regal interference. He ceased to 
act as legate ( but now of others? & sent
his chancellor to Rome with entreaties & 
protests. Again the pope required that 
Pole should appear in Rome to clear
himself from the charge of heresy; & 
Pito was summoned there also to assist 
the pontiff with his advice. Proceedings against 
the Cardinal were already
begun" (When it was all set at rest by the 
death of Pito, & while the affair was 
still in suspense)" the grave closed