¨The Governor means right,¨ said Mrs.
Howe.  ¨He means that, in view of the indignity 
and injustice of the infliction necessitated
by the law, the women may very well have 
abstained from voting.¨
¨Do you agree with the Governor in his
 implication that woman suffrage may prove to
be an unfortunate experiment?¨
¨The point that I should make,¨replied Mrs.
Howe, "is, who had the right to determine 
whether it is or is not?  We do not concede to
the male portion of the community the right
to make the decision. There are some who 
do not admit that universal male
suffrage is good, but such are not
allowed to limit the suffrage.  Suffrage does
not belong to men to give or to take away.
By existing forms of law men must give it to 
us. I do not allow that the obligation to give,
It implies the right to take it away, even
though it shall appear to some to be ´an
unfortunate experiment.´¨
¨How do you view the Governor´s proposition
to have woman suffrage decided for or
against by women themselves?¨
“It is a very difficult matter to speak of off-hand, but I will say that I hardly think that a 
matter of such evident and positive right
should be submitted to the chance of a popular 
vote.”
¨What would the effect be, do you think, of 
such a vote?¨
¨But now you see that, if we do settle the
 question in that manner, and it turns out in
our favor, we can do nothing more the same
year.  We haven´t got the suffrage, and, if it
goes against us, nothing is gained to anybody,
and nothing is settled.  Anything which the
state is bound to do as of right I don't think it
should commit
TO THE CHANCE OF A POPULAR VOTE.¨
“How would the majority of the women
vote on this questions were it so submitted to
them?”
“I should feel very uncertain about that.
Women of fashion and fortune would go
against it, and, while I do not wish to do the
poorer classes any injustice, I fear that a great
many of them would not support the measure.
There are also a good many young women in
easy circumstances who would fear to displease
their husbands, brothers or lovers, and
so would oppose it. But nearly all women
graduates of colleges and all professional
women will vote ´yes.´¨
¨Do you like the Governor´s plan of post-
office voting?¨
¨The experiment of voting for school suffrage
at the usual public voting places developed
nothing which rendered it unpleasant or
improper for a woman to go there and cast her
ballot.  In view of the great possibility of 
falsification, women should vote as men do.¨
¨What do you aim for particularly in the immediate future?
¨We should strike for municipal suffrage.
We cannot always command the order in
which things are to come. We must never for
a moment lose sight of all that we mean by
suffrage.  We must advance in every practicable 
form, at every opportunity.¨
¨What, in your judgment is the outlook?¨
¨The rapid rise in the culture of woman, and
particularly the great increase of the study of
sociological and economic questions, are all 
carrying society in the direction of woman
suffrage, in spite of what individuals may do
or think¨