LONDON Oct. 24 Whe the Parnell com-
mission resumed its sitting to-day Sir Charles
Russell, counsel for Mr. Parnell, said that in
addition to the forged Parnell letters the 
Times possessed letters alleged to have been
written by Mr. Dillon, Mr. Piggar and other
Parnellite members of parliament. These 
had not yet been disclosed. The Times' counsel
objected to producing them on the ground
that the Times did not gain possession of 
them until after the opening of the O'Donnell
action against the Times. But the documents
were material to the present case and 
ought to be produced. Mr. Soames, solicitor
for the Times, had filed an affidavit affirming 
that the Times had received the documents
from an American named Roberts. On examination
it had been discovered that some
of the letters were not genuine and therefore
they had not been used in the O'Donnell case. 
This candid statement admitting that somebody
had been supplying the Times with
forged letters had a direct bearing upon the 
Parnell-Egan forgeries. The documents that 
Mr. Soames had retained should therefore be 
produced.
     Attorney General Webster, for the Times,
held that the documents demanded were not
material to the issue. The affidavit of Mr. 
Soames showed clearly that somebody had
been trying to trick the Times and knowledge
of the trick had been communicated to Mr. 
Parnell's solicitor. Probably in the course of 
the case the court would hear who it was who
tried it on. The court could see the documents
if it desired, but he emphatically protested
that those who had advised Sir Charles
Russell of the existence of the documents
knew perfectly well that they were not material
to the issue.
     Sir Charles Russell asked: "How could it
be said that the 

Ellis House
O.B. Stanton. Prop. 
STANTON HOUSE, Abilene,
H. H. Stanton & Son, Prop's. 
UNION PACIFIC HOTEL, Topeka,
H. H. Stanton. 

Ellis, Kansas, Oct 26 1888

F. Douglass Esq.
Dear Sir
The enclosed
Cliped from the Kansas City Times
of the 25th I enclose to you for 
your verifycation, or denyal. Hundreds
of your old admyrers, and friends
in this state, have read the enclosed
with much surprise and sorrow.
We have been induced to believe that 
both New York, and Indianna
could be fully relied uppon to 
cast their electirat vote for our
Gallant Standard bearers Harrison
and Morton. A reply, either
confirming or denying the enclosed,
will greatly oblige
Yours &c
B. F. Leisenring
[*605*]