8     THE WOMAN CITIZEN

Whose Government is This?

By Carrie Chapman Catt

THE question for our consideration 
is whether the department of
Election Laws and Methods is sufficiently
important to make it a part of
the work of the League of Women
Voters.  It may at this moment be less
appealing to many women, but for that
very reason it is more necessary for
women voters to comprehend its need.
If any other department of the League
should be dropped, for example, Women
in Industry, Social Hygiene, Child Welfare,
other organizations would be responsible 
for the necessary work to be
done, as they were before these departments
were adopted by the League of
Women Voters;  but if the political department
be dropped there is no other
body of women to take it up.
We were enfranchised in 1920.  We 
ought to have been enfranchised twenty
years earlier at least, and that is not
mere talk.  The reason why were were
not enfranchised long before some of
you were old enough to take an interest
in public questions was that government
by the people rarely functions in this
country, and it does not really function
anywhere in the world as yet.  There are
many causes why it does not function 
and any one of these causes may at
any time be sufficient to delay normal
progress in a government such as
ours.

Controlling Groups

A small group of people determined
to oppose promised legislation, if provided
with money, as were the brewers
and distillers, may hold back legislation 
and prevent action being taken, even
though the masses of the people demand
action.  What the wets did to the suffrage
movement other groups of people
have done and may do for other great
causes.  Such groups of people may
make controlling contributions to political
parties and in return secure promises
of no action in legislatures or Congress,
provided that party is elected to power.
It may secure the orders of that party,
all the way down the line to the most
remote rural election district chairman,
to defeat a referendum.
Why were the railroads fighting ratification 
in Tennessee?  Certainly not
because the railroads cared whether
women voted or not.  Why was the 
Manufacturers' Association there to
work against ratification?  It was because
these interests, quite disconnected,
combined their lobbies to help the program
of any one of them with the
expectation that all the lobbies would be
combined in support of their own program 

Here is the address made by Mrs. Catt
at the Cleveland Convention of the 
League of Women Voters when, at her
suggestion, the Committee on Election
Laws and Methods was elevated to a department
of work called Efficiency in
Government.  This speech was felt to be
so fine an expression of the failure of
our governmental machinery to register
the people's wishes that it has been repeatedly
asked for by our readers.

when necessity arose.  The combination
of these lobbies against suffrage
has happened over and over again.
Presumably the program was that of the
liquor interests, but many other interests
united in its support.
There is also the autocracy of what
is known as the boss system to be
watched.  In one of the states which did
not ratify there were six men charged
with being owned absolutely by a political
boss, and they boldly and frankly 
said that they would not vote for ratification
nor yet against it nor tell any one
what they would do until they had had
their orders from their man.  This boss
wanted to retire from politics and refused
to give orders because he said if
he did so these men would expect in
return various political favors which
would cost him a good deal of money
and would prevent his retirement from 
politics as soon as he desired, so he
refused day after day to say the word.
I have always believed that because these
six men waited for the order that never
came we lost the ratification.  They did
not have sense enough to know what they 
wanted to do themselves.
A system in this country for taking
the vote of electors has been worked out.
It has been from decade to decade much
improved, but there are pitfalls for
honest voters in almost every department 
and before the business of taking
the people's vote is a perfectly conducted
one there must be a veritable
revolution in the methods of taking the
vote, getting the nominations, making
the platforms, and securing the legislation.
For example, in the most recent presidential
election voters found it impossible to
support the policies they approved by
voting any one ticket.  A Republican in
New Jersey who wanted to support both
the League of Nations and dry enforcement
had to choose which he wanted the 
more, for he could not do both and vote 
one ticket.  An Irish Democrat in New
York who wanted to go against the
League of Nations and also against dry
enforcement found the same difficulty.

These were two questions only in
that campaign and there were many 
others.  So difficult was it for women to
register the opinions they wanted to express
in that election that very many 
of them felt the vote would never be of
any value to them.  What happened
then, happens all the time, because there
is a conflict between the state and the
nation and because political machines
and bosses do so much political juggling
over issues.
Reform, therefore, is needed all along
the line.  It is needed in the election of
the President of the United States and 
all the way down to the dog-catcher in
the smallest village.

Where We Need Reform

Perhaps we need it most in our platform
making.  Ours is a country governed
by parties.  Parties are of tremendous
power in this land, so tremendous
that they can give the order whether a
referendum submitted by the legislature
shall be carried or rejected, and the
obedient electors walk up to the polls
and defeat or adopt the measure.  Platforms
are made and are supported by
those who have interest in them and
voters have little or nothing to say
about issues to be included.  Party loyalty
is relied upon to carry the ticket
pledged to the platforms and party
loyalty usually successfully accomplishes
the aim set by the managers.
Progress is being made toward reform;
every decade witnesses improvement,
but we are traveling forward too
slowly.  If ours is to be the great leading 
nation among the world's nations we
must no only look to the methods of
the registering of the opinions of the
people with greater care than is now the
case, but more assiduous attention must
be paid to the education of the people
in the issues that are properly to be
decided at the polls. 
Therefore the Committee on Election
Laws and Methods recommends that
this special committee shall be dropped
and the Efficiency in Government, which
is a more inclusive term than Election
Laws and Methods, be made a chief
department of the National League of
Women Voters.  That is, the committee
would magnify and emphasize political
work.
There are three main reasons for this
proposed change:
First.  We were a political body when
we were working for the suffrage and
we secured the vote by political action.
(Continued on page 16)

