6     THE REGISTER AND LEADER: WEDNESDAY MORNING, MAY 24, 1916

The Des Moines Register AND LEADER

BY THE REGISTER AND TRIBUNE CO.

(The Des Moines Leader, established 1848)
(The Iowa State Register, established 1856)

TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
BY MAIL OUTSIDE OF DES MOINES.
Daily and Sunday Register and Leader. $6.00 per year.
Daily, except Sunday, $4.00 per year.
Daily, except Sunday, 40 cents per month.
Sunday only, $2.00 per year.
BY CARRIER OUTSIDE OF DES MOINES.
Daily and Sunday Register and Leader, 15 cents per week.
Daily, except Sunday, 10 cents per week.
BY CARRIER IN DES MOINES.
The Daily and Sunday Register and Leader and The Evening Tribune delivered by carrier anywhere in Des Moines or Valley Junction- thirteen papers a week- Morning, Evening and Sunday- 15 cents a week.

New York office- Metropolitan Tower.
Chicago office- Peoples Gas Building, Suite 1164.

Entered at Des Moines, Iowa, postoffice as second class matter.

WEDNESDAY, MAY 24, 1916.

PRIVATE BRANCH TELEPHONE EXCHANGE.
Call Walnut 329 and ask for department wanted.
Private exchange switchboard is open from 7:30 p. m. to 10:00 p. m. week days, except Saturday. Saturday, 7:30 a. m. to 11:00 p. m. Sunday, 7:30 a. m. to 8:00 p. m.
When private exchange is closed call departments by the following numbers:
Walnut 320- City editor.
Walnut 326- Sports department.
Walnut 328- Society, clubs.
Walnut 329- Long distance.
Walnut 321- Editorial rooms.
Walnut 322- Advertising.
Walnut 323- Mail room.
Walnut 324- Composing room.
Walnut 325- Engraving department.
Walnut 327- Press room.

APRIL CIRCULATION- NET PAID
Daily Register and Tribune ............... 78,954
Des Moines Sunday Register ............... 60,321
Largest of any newspaper in any city of 150,000 in America.

THE PARAMOUNT ISSUE
Some Iowa newspapers carry the erroneous impression that the special law enforcement agents are appointed by the attorney general. These special officers are named by the governor. If Iowa should elect a "liberal" governor he probably would have "liberal" special agents.- Sioux City Tribune.

MR. IRISH GROWING OLD.
Nothing is sadder in this world than the change that comes over so many men as they shift from the buoyant enthusiasms of youth to the view-with-alarm despondency of age.
We do not know of an illustration more to the point than the speeches of John P. Irish is now making in Iowa against woman suffrage when contrasted with the speeches he made in the Iowa legislature for woman suffrage.

John P. Irish was a forward looking man in the old days when with spontaneous eloquence he pleaded for equal rights. Now he is as solemnly alarmed as any other pessimist.
It is really too bad that so many [estimate?] people begin to see every-

in the first line that he is "an American citizen," in the next eulogizes England, and in the last subscribes himself in lieu of his name, "A Gladstonian Liberal." Evidently he used this expression to conceal his German ancestry. What would we think of the state of his hyphen had he signed himself "A Follower of Bismarck?"
Third in the column is a letter entitled "Mawkish America." Its author declares that this country is "hysterically feminine and neurotic," and he signs himself "Anglicus." His hyphen is evidently severed inflamed.
Immediately following is the critical judgement of Mr. James McDonald, who says: "I consider the British empire the freest and best government in the world." Well, why not go home, then?
And the column winds up with an article on the "mongrel population" of the United States, ending:
"Bah! My country, 'tis of thee.
"James Macpherson,
"Trenton, N. J."
Just suppose that name had been Wilhelm Lustenschreck!
All of these letters appeared in one column of the New York Tribune, and they appeared there consecutively. Not one has been omitted. Shall we continue to think of the hyphen solely in Teutonic terms?

A CHAPTER OF HISTORY.
The Register recently asked of the Chicago Tribune "why did not Washington and Madison and Jefferson and Hamilton and the constitution makers meet the situation and give this country and army and a navy at the start?"
The Tribune comes back with the claim that these men would have given us a military establishment but in blind congress would not listen to them. The Tribune quotes a number of familiar passages from Washington, and then jumps to the conclusion that our school histories ought to be rewritten to show the military purposes of the fathers.
It is not worth while to quibble with the Tribune, but it is worth while to get at the real point of view of the men who started this nation out, in a military age, without a military fitting, in the belief that a great, peaceable, industrial democracy could be built in this new land free from the follies and blunders that had wrecked every earlier attempt at human organization.
The Register will not go to the school histories, but will go to Alexander Hamilton, because of all the 

adopted for the proper establishment of the militia. This will not only lessen the call for military establishments, but if circumstances should at any time oblige the government to form an army of any magnitude, that army can never be formidable to the liberties of the people, while there is a large body of citizens, little if at all inferior to them in discipline and the use of arms."
The constitution was accepted on this presentation by Hamilton, but the fathers were not wholly satisfied and this in the amendments constituting the American bill of rights, the militia was officially recognized as the military defense of the new nation, and every man was protected in the private right to bear arms in order that at no later date might a mistaken congress order or maintain a regular army to overturn our popular liberties.
When the war of 1812 was impending Randolph in an impassioned speech in congress said, "I will forever stand up for the militia. It is not in the scoffs of the epaulette gentry to degrade them in my eyes. Who are they? Ourselves- the country. Arm them and you are safe, beyond the possibility of danger. It is a fundamental principle of free government that a legislature that would preserve its liberty must avoid that canker, a standing army. Are we to forget as chimerical our notions of this institution which we imbibed from our very cradles, which are imprinted on our bill of rights and constitutions, which we avowed under the reign of John Adams?"
And Madison in his message to congress in that year, referring to a refusal of some of the states to furnish militiamen for the war showed conclusively in what regard the standing army was held when he said that in a failure of the militia "the public safety may have no other resource than in those large and permanent military establishments which are forbidden by the principles of our free government, and against the necessity of which the militia were meant to be a constitutional bulwark."
Nor was this a sentiment confined to the colonies and the young republic. Ambroise Clement writing in Lalor's "Encyclopedia of Political Science" says, "A very able German author, Mr. Rotteck, published in 1816 an important work entitled 'Standing Armies and National Militia.' He proves from the history of all wars, from those of the most ancient peoples down to the termination of the war of 1815, that standing armies or paid troops, under the sole con- 

WOMEN IN COLORADO.
Washington Bureau of The Des Moines Register: in an interview Senator John F. Shafroth of Colorado vigorously champions the cause of equal suffrage, and specifically defends woman suffrage in his own state against [changes?] recently made by J. B. Maling of Denver that equal suffrage had proved a failure in Colorado.
"My attention has been directed to statements made by Mr. Maling and published in Iowa papers, to the effect that woman suffrage in Colorado was a failure and should be abandoned." Said Senator Shafroth. "These statements are not substantiated by the facts and while I would not dignify them by calling attention to his specific indictments, I wish to state that in my judgment the experience of twenty-three years of equal suffrage in the state of Colorado has conclusively demonstrated its righteousness, its expediency and its practicability from every point of view.
"Do women want equal suffrage? Ask the women of Colorado. Submit the question to those who have tried it and scarcely a small minority can be found to vote against it. Whenever a law is disapproved by the people, expression of that sentiment is found in appeals for its repeal. Colorado has had equal suffrage for twenty-three years, yet no petitions for its repeal have ever been presented.
"The fact that member of the general assembly [?] Colorado has ever even [?] that a body a bill to resubmit the question to the people shows that there is no demand for any change in the elective franchise of that state.
"Furthermore, believe in amending the federal constitution so as to provide equal suffrage. To us of Colorado who believe that influence in government has always been and is sure to continue to be for the advancement of all good and moral legislation, it is inconceivable that woman's right to vote could do any harm or wrong to any state.
"Woman's presence in Colorado politics has introduced an independent element which compels better nominations and better officials. It has not caused the neglect by women of their home duties. It has not been the cause for domestic dissension or divorces. Judge George W. Allen of the Colorado district bench, in writing to me on this question, declared that in his twenty years on the bench he had never known of a divorce case wherein it was claimed or suggested that political differences in any manner had been the cause of trouble between husband and wife. Letters of similar import were sent to me by all the other district judges in Colorado.
"Equal suffrage in Colorado has caused no tendency in men to omit the politeness and gallantry to woman which she has always commanded. It has not lowered the ideals of women nor changed her refined, womanly qualities.
"Every moral law or movement in our state has had the support of a large majority of the women. It was the Interparliamentary union at London 

When John P. Irish Favored Suffrage
In the legislative session of 1870 an amendment proposing woman suffrage was passed by both houses of the Iowa legislature, and passed the house in the session of 1872. It was defeated in the senate of 1872. It was defeated in the senate of 1872 and so the amendment was not submitted to popular vote. John P. Irish engineered the amendment through the house both in 1870 and 1872. John A. Kasson was member from Polk and he voted for the amendment at both sessions.
This amendment was far-reaching and read as follows:
Laws of Iowa, 1870, 252. Joint Resolution No. 14. Joint resolution proposing to amend the constitution of the state of Iowa, and to provide for its reference and publication.
Be it resolved by the general assembly of the state of Iowa, That the following amendments to the constitution of the state of Iowa, be and are hereby proposed:
1. Strike from section 1 of article II of said constitution, the word "male."
2. Strike from section 4 of article III of said constitution, the word "male."
Resolved further, That these resolutions proposing to amend the constitution of the state of Iowa are hereby referred to the legislature to be chosen at the next general election; and that the secretary of state shall cause the same to be published for three months previous to the time of the next general election in one newspaper in each congressional district.
Approved April 4, 1870.

WHAT MR. IRISH SAID.
Legislative supplement, session of 1870, March 29, 1870: Mr. Irish- It is to be expected that I, as the member who introduced this resolution, out of which the joint resolution is moved, should say something on the question before the house. Let us view it, if you choose, in the light of an experiment at whose inception we stand today. Let us leave the poetry of the proposition out of the question, for the poetry of the proposition has been given in its most eloquent manner by the gentleman from Scott (Mr. Green). Let us view it in the light of fact; look at it in its prosiest shape and see if there is any actual strength in the proposition. Gentlemen who may object to the passage of this joint resolution cannot object thereto because it has not been demanded by the class proposed to be affected by it. The best and the most talented women of our land- those who during the late war showed their love of country by works which were not less laborious than those performed by the soldier in the field- women, representing the most enlightened and highly educated of their sex, have organized movements all over the land in favor of the thing which was contemplate today. They demand it; they pray for it; they work for it; they speak for it. Perhaps this may be to their disgrace. Perhaps they are degrading themselves by so doing. There are many who agree with the gentle- [?]

corded all their civil rights, more rights than they knew how to care for; and yet we, unasked, have conferred upon them an additional privilege, and the right to participate in the making of the law that shall govern you and me.
Then, I say, having done so much for a class that had passed through a long condition of servitude, and that were stepped in ignorance and barbarism- a class that had not asked for anything- are we now to make such a base use of the power conferred upon us as lawmaker of the people as to deny to another and more important class- the women of the land- the privilege for which they plead? The power is in our hand. If we deny their prayer, we make a base use of the power we hold. Gentlemen ask what more privileges do women want. Is she not the idol of our homes; the queen of our household and heart? I grant all that, in many cases; but remember, gentlemen, that while women may be the idol of our homes and the queen of our heart and household, there are thousands of that class who have the strong arm of no man stretched forth to protect them, that they are compelled to fall back on their own weak resources for all they shall want in this life; and for that class, I say permit this experiment to be tried. The country has reached this position of affairs that we must either progress or retrograde. Time was when women demanded no such privilege as this. Time was when the door of nearly every school and university in this and nearly every other country in the world was closed against her. Time was when, if a woman was possessed of the smallest degree of literary attainments she was supposed to be possessed of gigantic accomplishments. We have amended all this. We now open our schools and universities to women on equal terms with men. We open our professional schools on the same terms. We have opened up to this sex a new and unknown feature. We are permitting them to prepare for the governing duties of life in the professions or any other field. Now that you have opened the doors of universities, schools and professional institutions to women; after you have permitted them to acquire knowledge that will enable them to ennoble a profession, does it not seem hard that your system of law should become so that, if they acquire property by the practice of that profession, they are liable to be taxed therefor, but have no voice in the manner of taxation? Is not this hard? Your women go to normal schools and other institutions of learning, for the purpose of practicing a profession. She goes into the world as a teacher and stands side by side with a man that has not half her culture or ability; and yet while she brings to bear a greater knowledge to the business, while her labors were crowned with greater success, she [?]

privilege of obtaining education, or you must take a step forward. You must proceed to the logical result that must follow the opening of the universities which have given birth in the minds of women to these aspirations which education ever brings to those who possess it. We are at the inception of the question. How can the experiment be demonstrated a disaster? How can the family, around which we should throw every safeguard, suffer by the prosecution of this experiment? For who has a warmer, or a more heartfelt interest in the maintenance of the family, in all its purity and goodness, than woman has? When woman is convinced that the family, in its organization, must suffer by this experiment, will you tell me that she will not be the first to recede from this position? I am willing to leave the matter in her hands, and if the family is to suffer or be degraded, I know she will abandon the prosecution of a dangerous experiment.

IN A SECOND SPEECH.
Mr. Irish- I am requested by the gentleman from Jefferson (Mr. Ball) to read certain parts of the holy scripture. They are the Corinthians, fourteenth chapter, thirty-fourth and thirty-fifth verses; Epistle of Paul to Timothy, eleventh and twelfth verses. If I were competent to do so before this legislature, I would move an amendment to those passages. (Laughter.) But as that is not competent, I would say, in explanation, that Paul was then speaking to the Corinthian women- I do not know what sort they were. They may be utterly unqualified to speak in public, and it might have been proper that Paul should exhort them to keep silence in churches. He said nothing of the American women, that they should keep silence at the polls or legislature. Paul claimed inspiration; but it is singular that nowhere in the writing of his divine master do you find such sentiments expressed. Jesus, in the most sublime of all his sayings, in his sermon on the mount, exalted men and women to deeds of charity, to be merciful and humble that they may one day walk with their God. This book teaches that men and women should alike endure trial and suffer judgments of the law, should alike die and arise at the resurrection. As they are to travel side by side spiritually, does it seem wise that we should place women in a temporary position of disadvantage, where their ambition is to be unsatisfied, where her aspirations are never to be realized? If we can make her live better, and more wisely should we not do it? In doing that we are obeying the spirit of the scripture. I care not what might have been said by Paul or any other apostle, who was so unfortunate as to live and die a bachelor. It is better to refer to the writings of the divine master and not to the teachings of one who was a little bit headstrong and pedantic in his views and manner of expression. The gentleman from Dubuque (Mr. O'Donnell) has ably spoken on the other side of [?]