Round-the-World Study Project
World Crusade Against Communism

Where RTWSP Students Will Go: The round-the-world journey of RTWSP will be made by air and it will take World Students into more than 25 different foreign lands, where they will be official guests in each.  The specially chartered flight of RTWSP will begin from Byrd Airfield in Richmond and will make stops in various United States cities to receive the bon voyage applause of America.  On the list are Washington, Baltimore, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Detroit, Chicago, St. Louis, Los Angeles and Sand Francisco. From California no other stop until they alight in Hawaii.  From there to Wake Island, Tokyo, Formosa, the Philippines, Indonesia, Singapore, Cambodia, Siam and Burma.  Then on to India, Pakistan, Arabia, Ethiopia, the Sudan, Egypt and Palestine.  On the 10-week journey they will meet heads of foreign states, they will extend their arm of friendship and goodwill, they will see the ancient shrines of antiquity and the continent of Africa - land of their ancestors.  They will pay homage to the original centers of western civilization - Athens, Rome, Paris, Antwerp, and London.  Their globe-girdling crusade will return them to Richmond by way of Ireland, Canada, and New York.

Who Goes: Fifty Virginia Union University students.  World students will be selected from many sections of the United States. They will be selected on the basis of their ability, recommendation and attitude.  Character and intelligence rather than money will determine selectees.

College Credit: Credit given for the world study shall be between 9 and 12 hours.  The credit will be apportioned between such courses as International Affairs, Cultural Relations, Art Appreciation, Geography, Anthropology Field Work, etc.  Two university professors will escort and tutor the project.  Special lectures, conferences, seminars, etc., will be offered World Students by foreign universities and government representatives.  As far as possible, World Students will live with the people they visit.  Special sightseeing tours, planned study outlines, special map making, trip diaries, written reports, and scrap-books will fully round out RTWSP's learning program abroad.

Where the Money Will Come From: The money will come from Cooperative Financing: that is, the students, their friends, relatives and organizations: a special RTWSP Assistance Scholarship Fund which is being created: friends of the university and interested organizations and concerns.  The foreign governments to be visited are taking care, to a considerable extent, of living expenses while the project is in their particular country.  A great saving will be made through the special charter of a plane rather than the purchase of individual fares.  On this account there is no set fee for participation. The cost will largely depend upon each participant's individual needs and abilities.

Assistance Scholarship Fund: The goal of the Assistance Scholarship Fund is a scholarship for each needy participant in varying amounts.  Scholarships will be awarded through a special university appointed committee.