NATIONAL WOMAN'S PARTY
ALVA BELMONT HOUSE
144 B STREET, NORTHEAST
WASHINGTON 2, D. C.

TELEPHONE ATLANTIC 1210
October 29, 1945

Dear Voters in the Convention by Mail
of the National Woman's Party:

The report of the Elections Committee, signed by Dr. Margaret Sebree, Chairman, has been handed to me. A copy is enclosed herewith.

Delegates from all over the coutry sent in their ballots. Each delegate represented twenty-five members. All nominees proposed by the Nominating Committee were elected. A number of other names were written in; in many cases these were of members who had, for one reason or another, expressed their inability to serve, and whose names had therefore not been proposed by the Nominating Committee.

It will be recalled that in addition to the newly elected Council members, all former National Chairman and all State Chairmen are members of the National Council ex officio.

May I, as Convention Chairman, thank all of you for your splendid cooperation during this, our first Convention by mail. The registration fee which many of you sent has been most helpful.

We are indebted to the members of the Nominating Committee, the Credentials Committee, the Resolutions Committee, and the Elections Committee, for their many, many hours of laborious work during the hot weather. It is largely due to the painstaking effort of these committees that the undertaking of a Convention by Mail has been brought to a successful conclusion.

There are no words adequate to express our regret over losing Alice Paul as our National Chairman. Her great leadership has made it possible for the Amendment to reach its present position of strength in the Congress. Miss Paul will still be helping us, since she is now planning to devote her time to the World Woman's Party, of which she is Chairman. Since the National Woman's Party is the United States branch of the World Woman's Party, Miss Paul will be working closely with us. 

I want, on behalf of all of us, to give a very warm welcome to our new Chairman, Anita Pollitzer, and to all of our new officers and Council members. Miss Pollitzer's devoted service and years of accomplishment for our cause are well known to you, as are her exceptional qualifications for the heavy duties she is about to undertake. We are all grateful to her. Let us get strongly behind her and the other officers and Council memebers so that we may achieve success for Equal Rights at an early date.

The Resolutions as adopted by the Convention will be printed in the next issue of Equal Rights.

The new Council will meet at the call of Miss Pollitzer.

Cordially yours,

Cecil Norton Broy
Convention Chairman